# SLAM Automatic Calibrator
This ROS node can perform automated external calibration of a SLAM algorithm, being managed by a set of robots collaborating between them, or a single robot (it will depend on the .launch files setup), and using the humongous power that Bayesian optimization provides.

The tool uses hyperopt, a Python library implementing Tree-Structured Parzen Estimators (a statistical variant that Bayesian optimization could use), to try to converge to the set of params that maximizes an output function result.

## Steps to use the node:
1. Into _slam_auto_calibrator.launch_, set the variables needed to run the optimization or validation algorithm, most of them are mandatory.
2. Into _multi_robot_in_world.launch_, set the environment with the robots to be used.
3. Into the _slam_launcher.launch_, set the variables needed to run the SLAM algorithms desired per robot, and the navigation algorithm to be used.
4. Start _roscore_ in a shell, and then, run the node in another shell by using the command _roslaunch slam_auto_calibrator slam_auto_calibrator.launch_.

## Setting Up a Different SLAM Algorithm

To set a different SLAM algorithm, it is required to modify two different files, these are mentioned below.

### slam_auto_calibrator.launch

This file contains two important variables to consider:
1. **SLAM_Name**: This variable is used to give a name to the output maps generated by the robots. As is, this change is not mandatory, but is required to keep the standard and avoid confusion while using this node.
2. **Params_File_Path**: This variable is mandatory, it sets the path to the yaml file that contains the parameters of the given SLAM algorithm, and it is used to update the parameter values for the given SLAM algorithm. To get some clues about how to set this file, go to **Parameters File Format**.

### slam_launcher.launch

This file holds the general configuration of each of the robots in the arena, therefore, here we define the specific SLAM algorithm to be used by each of the robots, if you want to change the SLAM algorithm to be run by your robot(s), here is where you must do so, look for the specific group of each of the robots, and update the package to be used for localization and mapping.

## Parameters File Format

Yaml files are used to store parameters modification, when the user wants to set a parameter to a different value than its default value. Doing so is quite simple, the user just has to type in the parameter, followed by a colon sign, and next the new value.

However, to be able to use an optimization algorithm, there was a need to tell what the variable type is, and what its maximum and minimum desired values are, so that it was possible to set a search space, tailored by the user. The way this was implemented  was by following this standard: _{variable}: {initial value} #{var type (only int, float, and bool are allowed)} #min={min value} #max={max value}_, for example, this is an acceptable parameter formatting: _varExample: 0.3 #float #min=0.1 #max=0.5_.
